Okay,
guys.
Um,
welcome back.
And they were gonna have a look at how to create gang chart using excels built in charting
tools.
Now,
to use the built in charting tools,
what we're going to need to do is add another column of data.
So what I'm gonna do over here in Collin de is I'm gonna add the duration.
So what we're gonna say for the duration is the end eight minus the start date.
And there you go.
We can see here that because we change the date of column cut comment.
Phillips kind of Philips only lasted seven days in our employment.
So now what I'm gonna do is click off.
So I am not in this day to set.
I'm gonna come up to the insert menu,
and I'm gonna come over to the chart section and I'm going to choose this little drop down
box right here.
And what I'm interested in is this second option,
the stacked bar chart.
So I'm just going to click that.
And here is our chart just contract that I was a little bit There we go now.
The next thing we need to do is to add some data into our chart.
So he's going to right Click on DMA,
choose select data a woman do here in the legend entries Siri's is Click add on here.
The Siri's name is going to be start date and in here I'm just going to delete that and I'm
gonna highlight or select from here down to the bottom and click.
OK,
so may we have start date?
The next thing I do is click add again.
And this time the Siri's name is going to be duration some skin click on D one.
Come in here,
delete that.
I only click from D to on That is our generation.
So no,
we have start date and duration,
but we now have 12345 down here and that's not what we want.
So what we're gonna have in the horizontal category axis,
we're going to click edit on.
We're going to come up to here.
We're going to skip full name and we're gonna start straight out a to and come all the way
down and then I'm going to click OK on,
then we're going to click.
OK again,
Andi.
Wherever charges come,
they go there's our charts.
Little squished up at the moment,
but there it is.
Now,
the one thing that you notice immediately about this especially doesn't look very tired.
And the other thing is that we have two bars in there,
a blue one on an orange one,
and also all the people there in reverse order.
So our very first person is common for lips yet on the charts.
And very last person is Connor Philip.
So what we're gonna do here is we're going to right click in this legend.
Where the names are we going to say format access on this little window here is going to
pop up?
No,
in this option,
the Axis options we're going to scroll down on,
we're going to say categories in reverse order.
And now Kama Phillips appears at the top,
and then we're gonna close that.
Okay,
so far,
so good.
So at least we have them in the right order now.
Now,
the next thing we want to do is we want to right click on one of the blue bars and what
we're going to do is say,
format data Siris on this time what we want to do is come over toothy Phil Andi line
section.
So I'm just going to click.
They're not gonna click No,
Phil,
And then I'm just gonna close that.
And when I click off,
you can see it's starting to take shape a bit.
Now,
at the moment,
you'll notice we have this huge gap over here where we have absolutely no data are little
guns.
Lines are appearing far over to the right with a load of dead space just here.
So what we need to do is change this axis to begin somewhere near the beginning.
Now,
to do that,
what we need to do is calculate what the smallest state in here is.
So just temporarily in F one I'm just gonna say equals small,
just like we did before on just choose the whole of that and I want to choose.
The smallest dates have gone K one.
So for 0186 now,
what we're gonna do is right.
Click Onley dates at the top.
We're going to choose format access.
And here where we have bounds,
we're going to change that to that value there.
So full 0186 Andi close on There you go.
That is a gang charter.
Cono,
delete that.
Okay,
so there you go.
That's how you create gown chart.
Using excels built in charting tools.
Personally,
I find this a little bit fiddly.
I know much prefer this method,
but it's entirely up to you.
Which one you use?
Okay.
I'll see you in the next section.